---
layout:     post
title:      "10 Years"
subtitle:   
img:        
alt:        
date:       2019-08-24 06:17:29 -0500
tags:       personal
link:       
---

Ten years ago, during our honeymoon in Hawaii, I told Ashley that we would come back to the island for our ten year anniversary. I wasn't sure what would happen during those ten years, but I was adamant of what would happen at the end of that period. During that time, I have had six different jobs, while Ashley has had two. We bought our first house. Ashley gave birth to our beautiful son. We moved across the country. We lived on the beach and wet our feet in the Pacific Ocean. [We lost a friend](https://www.toddgrooms.com/2017/01/24/thats-a-hell-of-an-old-hound-dog-you-got-there/). We moved across the country again. We adopted new friends; [we lost another](https://www.toddgrooms.com/2019/02/22/cross-country/). We missed our return trip to Hawaii.

This summary does not adequately cover the depth or richness of the last ten years. There are many laughs and many tears that I have conveniently glossed over for the sake of brevity. I feel very fortunate that I found someone to spend my life with: someone to laugh with, to cry with, or to make silly jokes with that no one else would understand. I have found someone with whom I can share everything and for that I am lucky and grateful. I'm not sure if I would quantify the last ten years as easy or hard; I'm more likely to quantify it as fulfilling.

I look forward to our time together. I am excited to see what new memories we make during the next ten, twenty, thirty, forty, …

****

A special note for Ashley: thank you for sharing your life with me. I may not always show it, but I am grateful for every moment we share together.